Brainstorming about how to implement billing ??

The plans:

free:
   - support
   - 5GB across all projects

\$7/month:

   - certain number of network upgrades
   - ... of projects on members-only servers
   - idle timeouts
   - priority support
   - can use pay-as-you go
   - 15GB space across all projects

\$49/month:
   - same as above, with more points
   - high priority support

A key thing we need is a notion of total usage across
all projects for each quota, and a way to adjust the
allocation. This will take a week to implement.

First plan will just provide network access and move to members-only server, since that is easiest.  Then add other features.

Also implement way to reign in existing free projects.

---

A way to charge would be to charge $7/month flat fee, plus everything else somehow based on my current costs.


What does storage cost per month?

 - \$0.04/GB on local machine where project open
 - \$0.04/GB on two storage servers (when implemented)
 - \$0.01/GB on google nearline
 - \$0.12/GB one-time offsite backup fee -- extend over year to \$0.02/GB/month

Total: $0.11/GB.

So I should charge $0.25/GB.

What does one dedicated pre-empt n1-standard-1 cost?

- \$0.0165/hour

Plus there is about 100GB of disk involved, which costs \$0.006/hour.

So \$0.025/hour would pay costs for a dedicated pre-empt machine.

For non-pre-empt it is:

- \$0.06/hour

So charging \$0.10/hour makes sense.

Best possible way to map this to GCE would be to separate projects and machines.

E.g., have a "move project" option for members.  One of the options there will be to
add your own dedicated machine.  That machine would have a certain amount of local disk and you could move any projects you own/collab on to it.  It would be on when any project is on.  It would have a shutdown button, which would stop all projects and stop charges, except for disk.    Have a new tab in account settings listing your compute machines and their state, properties, etc.   Integrate some form of project checkpointing to provide infinite uptime (with pauses) for all projects, so users can pause/resume state of worksheets and everything to save money but not keep state.   Basically, we are building something around GCE that is like how Sage makes something very user friendly on top of Pari (say).

Base fee to have dedicated machine: \$4/month + \$0.05/GB of disk space.

So invoice might look like this:

Membership............................. $ 7
3 dedicated computers, 20GB disk....... $13
157.4 n1-standard-1 pre-empt hours..... $ 3.93


Total ................................. 23.93.

OK, that's clearly out of whack.

Nobody would want to pay $13 for computers that are so under-used.
Hmmm....

With some cleverness I could get that fixed cost for an off machine down a lot.
Base image could probably be 10GB and all other disk date (e.g., /usr/local) could
be read-only mounted (so shared across everything).  30GB disk costs me `30*0.04 = 1.2/month`; let's say 0.1/GB to user.  With that the above invoice would be:

Membership............................. $ 7
3 dedicated computers, 20GB disk....... $ 3.00
157.4 n1-standard-1 pre-empt hours..... $ 3.93

Total ................................. 13.93.

Cost to me:

- 30GB disk usage: \$1.20
- 157.4 n1-standard-1 pre-empt hours: \$2.5971.
- Snapshotting: est 10GB = 20*.027 = \$0.52

Total.................................. 3.85

Remaining to cover management = 6.93 - 3.85 = 3.08.

An always on n1-standard-1 for one month that is pre-empt costs \$12.08/month.
A user could very reasonably stick 10 projects on one of those.
They would pay

Membership............................. $ 7
1 dedicated computer with 20GB disk...  $ 2.50 (?)
n1-standard-1 pre-empt 24/7 hours.....  $ 20.00 (say)

Total ................................. 29.50

That's nowhere near enough to even make this happen right now.
But with a lot of users and smooth running software, it would
be very viable.

Overall plan:

- About $200/month bandwith

- About $535/month on web servers/database infrastructure/bandwidth (6 n1-highmem-2, and disk space)

- About \$470.184/month on 6 n1-highmem-4 pre-emptible VM's.  This supports up to about 1000 simultaneous projects, so should last into Sept.

- About \$540.16/month for two n1-highmem-4 in us and one europe always on VM's for members only. These cost  \$168.80/each (plus more for europe) and can support about 500 projects each.


That's $2000k.













